It's important to understand that
technology malfunctions are not the only source of vehicle accidents.
Social and organizational factors play a role as well.
An organization should develop clear policies and strategies to support the development,
production, and operation of safe systems.
Imagine what would happen if your manager told you to skip
a few software integration tests in order to meet a deadline?
Would you feel comfortable telling your manager no?
Does your company have clear policies about what to do if you
encounter design problems that aren't your responsibility?
Decisions about technology after all, are made by humans.
And humans are fallible.
Good safety culture, put safety as the highest priority over competing constraints,
like cost and productivity.
Design decisions need to be well documented and
traceable back to the people who made those decisions.
Companies should reward achieving safe systems and penalize taking shortcuts.
Without a good safety culture,
functional safety is difficult to achieve.
Your safety plan will need to include
information about how your company promotes a safe culture.